What database models do you know?
Relational & noSQL


Which are the main functions performed by a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)?
View, Edit, Insert and delete operations. That's it.


Define what is "table" in database terms.
The same as "class" in OOP - a pattern for instances. The rows are the instances.


Explain the difference between a primary and a foreign key.
The primary key defines the row. The forein key is like a hyperlink to a different row.


Explain the different kinds of relationships between tables in relational databases.
one to one - used when a single thing is splitted in two tables.
one to many - used when the ralation is of "has a" type.
many to many - used when the relation is more complex.


When is a certain database schema normalized? What are the advantages of normalized databases?
Easier to get data.
no Insert/Edit/Delete errors (read the books of Edgar Cod to understand this part).


What are database integrity constraints and when are they used?
Constraints about the type, and value of the data fields in the dataBase. Used when we need to enforse some rules. They make our life easyer.


Point out the pros and cons of using indexes in a database.
Fast View operations. Slow Edit/Insert/Delete operations.


What's the main purpose of the SQL language?
To give us an abstraction about the database. Without it, We'd be writing operations about reading the bits of a file. Not fun!


What are transactions used for? Give an example.
Trasactions group several operaions together and ensure that eighter all of them are executed, or non of them are.
Used for money transactions, document transactions, and... pretty much anything else. If it's important, then it needs to be in a transaction!


What is a NoSQL database?
Something that will haunt you in your dreams!!!
It's simply a place where you store documents of any type, and then access them.Nothing more, nothing less.


Explain the classical non-relational data models.
XML data bases store XML files. JSON data bases store JSON files. If there is a TXT data base, then it'll probably be storing TXT files.


Give few examples of NoSQL databases and their pros and cons.
MongoDB - easy to use, easy to shoot yourself in the leg.
I think that the others are pretty much the same. They might store different type of data, but they do it in the same way.